hi YouTube today I'm I'm going to start
my first episode of p.m. I live with
myself I want to show you guys what I
think about when I am performing my
squad session from the very first
warm-up set which is going to be empty
bar up into my top set and the things
that I consider with my accessory work
and how I determine the exercises that I
do in my program so without further ado
let's check it out this is me on my
first set with the barbell before I've
done this I've done a whole bunch of
core activation series I could have had
that on video but I decided not to
because I don't want to make it too
boring for you and this is me I did
eight reps here I think from memory
watch how I'm moving I'm kind of like
crunching in half I'm falling forward a
lot I'm quite tight is that a bad thing
you'll see as I get a little bit more
weight on the bar I have become more
upright that next that was 80 kilograms
now we've got a hundred and five
kilograms on here so far I'm doing all
the right things I'm looking straight
ahead I'm initiating the movement by
pushing my knees out that's 130
kilograms the side view looks like I'm
folding in half a lot on the side view I
look at my squats usually from the front
view if I was to change that I would
work on being a little bit more upright
180 kilograms with knee wraps the knee
wraps force me to be more upright
because it gives me something to push my
knees into the more the knees come
forward the more upright the torso can
be and that's what my goal is 205
kilograms
everything's looking good this is my
soft knee wraps I started wrapping at
180 kilograms I've got jung-an she's
wrapping my knees three up that's the
third revolution four revolutions up
this is a very soft wrap so it doesn't
matter how tight she's going she's not
going as hard as she can that's six
revolutions that's the x over the
patella seven and I believe she goes
well let's say seven eight revolutions
she tie off here yes she does so that's
revolutions technically that's a pretty
tight rap but it's a very soft knee rap
quality and that's what I'd like to do
for my first sets I believe I did this
up to 230 kilograms was my last set so
check that out with the knee wraps on
with two hundred and thirty kilograms
that was a little bit more of an upright
position than what you saw before my
last side view and the knee wraps allow
me to do that wouldn't you add knee
wraps well with the experience on the
knee wraps the body kind of just knows
what to do to use them which is push the
knees forward be more upright 255
kilograms if you notice I've got the
stiffer wraps on at this point 280
kilograms
look how I'm going slow on the way down
and fast on the way up what I'm working
towards here is precision precision with
landing in the hole in the perfect
position this is 305 kilograms
densities intensity is heating up now
we've got all of the boys and girls
around me helping me we've got Sun in
the background to recording we've got
Alex to God Simon spotting me from
behind that makes it very me Allah that
makes me a lot more confident to have
good spotters around now this is my top
set this is James he raps my last two
sets I get him to save his hands that's
why I've got Annie wrapping me on my
warm-up sets and he's wrapping me have a
look at the difference between their
technique look how hard he's doing it
he's going as tight as he can so right
now I look kind of calm I'm not really
feeling any pain I'm used to wrapping my
knees this time my recommendation is not
to go this tight especially if you're
learning how to use the wraps that's ten
revolutions these are pioneer Eric
Lillibridge wraps or Lillibridge wraps
this is 330 kilograms we got my top set
we got two guys on the side to spot and
we've got Alex behind me what am i
focusing on I'm looking straight ahead
at this point look at the eyeball bulge
I can't see too much to be completely
honest with you everything's a blur but
I'm pretty happy with how things are
going you'll notice that my knees kinda
come in a little bit
and that's a postural deviation it's not
so much that I have to say that's just
wrong I have to end the set they're like
I'm still taking that that's I'm happy
with that as it gets heavy this was
always going to be my top set for the
day I came in wanting to achieve 330
kilograms for three reps and I got it
but I want to achieve it as good as
possible with technique as good as
possible well though that was a perfect
technique I'm very happy with how
everything went my focus was to open
hips push the knees out and the way that
I achieved that is by taking my time
with the warm-up sets and what I'm doing
is focusing on coming down nice and slow
that's an error that a lot of people
make is on the warm-up sets it's the
light way so they can easily just bang
it out that's not what I'm trying to do
if you paid attention to each set it was
nice and slow on the way down it was
very much the same speed and that's the
the what I teach people is to think
about your top set how fast are you
going to go down on your top set that's
how fast you should be going down on
each and every one of your warm-up sets
so I'd like to think that that's the
same tempo that I used on my 330
kilograms difference being it was damn
heavy and at this point oh I just wasn't
coming up as fast I was trying to though
and I do believe that considering the
weight it was a really good speed on the
way up I'm really happy with it
I don't know I wouldn't call that a
personal best but I'm 15 weeks out from
competition and I'm pretty happy with
the position that I mean this is a
strongest that I've been this far out
from competition at the same time we
don't just continue to increase in a
linear fashion so I know something's
going to give us some point so now I've
got 15 weeks to slow it down my last
competition I squatted 375 kilograms and
my goal is to beat that this year last
time I did that I was seven weeks out
with this same rep the set scheme with
330 kilograms so seven weeks out I've
been 334 triple now in 15 weeks out with
the same way so I've got an extra 8
weeks up my sleeves it doesn't mean I'm
going to keep on pushing hard it means
I'm going to back to
a little bit slow myself down and get
there a little bit smarter a little bit
safer every week that I try and progress
from here it increases the risk of
injury it's heavy weights I'm currently
a hundred and seven kilograms so now
what I've got to do is think about how
I'm going to include my accessory
exercises so have a look here this is me
moving towards my accessories
supplementary squats this is done in the
afternoon so session one is done in the
morning after I've done my 330 kilogram
for three reps I'm pretty beat up it
seems a bit strange that it's only one
set but I use a lot of time and effort
warming up to that one step and it's a
huge adrenaline dump after I finished
that one top set the excitement I'm kind
of done so I left it there when how to
feed had some lunch and came back in
session two and did my accessory
movements so this is me my accessory
movements here this is high bar pause
tempo squats so it's a hundred eighty
kilograms this is my working weight I do
three sets of five here the reason why I
use a high bar so something else you
notice I'm using nice legs instead of
knee wraps and I'm not using a belt so
what I'm doing this is the way that I
consider my accessory movements I think
of ranges of motion and muscles that
I've neglected in my main work and I
focus on that in the supplementary
movement so the range of motion that
I've neglected is that deep knee bent
the lobe us-what with wraps is a hip
dominant style of movement and the knee
reps take the quads out of the out of
the equation so taking the knee wraps
and I've got knee sleeves only to
protect my knees to keep my knees warm
so protecting my knees with sleeves only
I still need to use my quads a lot this
is a very high bust court is a very quad
dominant movement so this is a side view
I'm focusing on being as upright as
possible so hey I want to be upright for
the developed quads that's what I've
neglected in my main work and be I want
a high bar squat variation to teach my
body how to stay really really upright
under load which is very much what I'm
thinking about in my competition style
of squat that's the second set now we go
to the third
have a look at my hands I'm kind of cold
at a collar I'm at the end of the bar
but I'm pulling my elbows back and
shoulder blades down that's how I engage
my upper back on the way down I focus on
opening my hips giving my pelvis room to
sit in the bottom this is an ass to
grass squat I'm getting full knee bent
here so I can maximize my quadriceps in
this movement the more the knee bends
the more you use the quadriceps looking
straight ahead that's very much how I
want to be this is a really great
addition to my squat game as well as
anyone else who wants to do powerlifting
and squats with a low bus what
especially with knee wraps my main work
is a hip dominant movement it's a low
bar squat with the hip dominant movement
so the things that I've neglected I've
used a lot of equipment I've used a belt
so I want to strengthen my unbelted work
so I want to strengthen my core without
a belt in my main work I've used knee
wraps
I want to strengthen my knee extensors
which is my quadriceps without knee
wraps on my supplementary work so that's
why I've got the sleeves only here have
a look at the footwear I've got elevated
here weightlifting shoes well that's
also going to allow me to be more
upright which is the position that I
want to be in to build quads to the best
of my ability so that's my squats for
the day the total volume was really not
much 330 kilograms for one set of three
with wraps secondary movements was done
in the afternoon so I like to give
myself about three to four hours break
if I do two sessions not many people
have the luxury of being able to do that
I'm very lucky that I've got this is my
gym behind me I'm very lucky that I've
got my own space here and this is where
I work every day so not everyone has
that luxury in which case I would tell
them to do the accessory work straight
after the the top sense which way is
better I prefer my way because it allows
me to come back with a lot more energy
to perform my accessory exercises better
to put it simply so that's my session I
hope you enjoyed the first episode of
pimp my lives it's hard to say if I
really pimped it I'm always pimping my
own lifts I'm always working on
perfecting my my movement although I
said my 330 triple wasn't
I know what I need to do my knees were
coming in a little bit I was folding
forward a little bit this is why I use
the same accessory exercises that I use
for myself and then I prescribe for
others focus you on pushing my knees out
focusing on being more upright and
strengthening the muscles that are
neglected in the main work that's a rule
that applies for all of my training
sessions even upper body so if I do a
main exercise as my primary lift that's
what I'm focusing on with my accessory
movements or my supplementary exercise
however you want to call it and that's
all so I hope you guys enjoyed session
one of pin my lives I'm going to do my
best to get some of the best athletes in
my team to do some more pin my lift
series for you guys so that you guys can
learn a little bit about how I coach my
movements and the reasoning behind why I
prescribed all the various exercises
that I do prescribed I hope you guys
enjoyed it click like subscribe and
comment below if you guys want to see me
focusing on any lifts in particular or
any athlete in particular and we will
make it happen I hope you guys enjoyed
it
[Music]